This is a letter.
Just read, indicate that Senator Carsey did not think
private sign would have been drafted, except for the fact
that he worked for the Senator's committee, which
was investigating the Army.
Let me make clear that the selective service system and the
draft boards are, of course, wholly independent of the Army.
I am told, however, that the draft boards, which at one time
or another had signed case, had considered
eligible for the draft ever since the beginning of the Korean War
in 1950.
This was two and a half years before he
went to work for Senator Carsey.
And three years before the Senator began to investigate
the Army.
The statements of Senator Carsey's letter
of December 22nd are also in striking contrast
with the numerous efforts made both before and after that day
to obtain preferential treatment and special assignments
for private sign, to say nothing of the attempts
to obtain a direct commission for him.
So at the end of December, Mr. Adams
advised me that he had checked with the IJD General's office,
and the sign was headed for the Provost
Marshal General, Senator at Camp Gordon George.
Mr. Adams mentioned that private sign
might possibly qualify for the Criminal Investigation
School, which is located there.
Call non-being so advised as Mr. Adams,
many questions.
With reference to Camp Gordon, such as the length of time,
private sign would be required to undergo training there,
whether we would have to live on the post.
The points of contact to the years in order
to arrange for making sign available for committee
there's no dismissal.
And the likelihood of signs going overseas
at the end of these tours.
Mr. Adams told home that the chances
where the private sign would face overseas duty
after completing his tour at Camp Gordon, just like every other
boy.
Mr. Adams said, home, they're upon stated,
that if this occurred, it would quote directly
armed, unquote, and I would be quote, true, unquote,
as secretary.
On January 14, three days before I departed for the Far East,
I met Senator McCarthy of the Tower
on a post-cal here in Washington
and told him of my forthcoming trip.
After about a half hour's discussion,
a friend of his joined them.
The question of private sign length of service
at Camp Gordon was discussed.
So was the criminal investigation tool.
I said private sign could apply for the tool,
and it would depend upon his record and qualifications,
whether or not he would be accepted.
Four or five times during the conversation,
Senator McCarthy brought up the possibility
of obtaining a New Yorker sign for Sean.
I reminded the senator that he's read on the of December 22.
He had stated that he had an unbreakable rule,
that he would never attempt to interfere
with or influence the army in its refinement.
The senator dropped the subject.
I left for the Far East on January 17, 17.
And when I returned, private sign had been transferred
to Camp Gordon, Georgia, to complete his basic training.
The efforts to obtain special treatment
for private sign from Mr. Adams
continued through the end of the month.
I may say that during my tenure as secretary of the Army,
there is no record that matches this
and persists a pile of effort to obtain special consideration
and privileges for this man.
Now I turn to other events that are related to the Sean story.
President-elect Eisenhower asked me
to become secretary of the Army in the December of 1952.
I was born in at the White House on February 14, 1953.
On my very first day in office, I
sent the following number and the chief of staff.
Whoa.
I would appreciate it if you would arrange for a brief meeting
to give me on Friday 6th, February, 1953,
telling the Army's loyalty and security programs
to both military and civilian personnel.
The presentations to step forward, what steps
are taken to prevent this law of a subversive person
from infiltrating the Army?
And what steps have been taken to discover and remove
any such person who may have found their way
into the Army establishment and the Caucasian?
On February 13, I lunch with Mr. Jay Eger Hoover
in the office of the secretary of defense.
On March 2, I call on Mr. Hoover in his office
to discuss Army security matters.
Army liaison with the FBI has been close and effective.
On September 15, 1953, I issued a letter
to the director throughout the Army stating
that his Army power, it is not consistent
with the interest of national security
to employ or to retain on the job any civilian
who in response to a proper question by proper authority
refuses to say whether he is or has been a member
of the Communist Party or other subversive group
or organization.
In this step, the Army took the initiative
throughout the entire government.
On the 14th and 14th of October,
I spent two days in New York attending
the executive hearing of this committee regarding Fort Monmouth.
I wanted to obtain all of the additional information
I heard about Fort Monmouth and the security situation there.
I invited Senator McCartney and his staff to lunch, both days.
I spiked the four going into them
as evidence of my awareness of the problem of subversive
and my determination to do something about it.
I did not mean to spurt by anyone.
By the same time, I welcomed the system from any sort,
including this committee.
The executive and legislative branch
of the Vice-Divised Government must, in my opinion,
work together as I have previously spent.
My first connection with this committee
and its chairman occurred in September 1953.
I was spending a few days before Labor Day in Montana
and happened to notice a new item in a local paper
of late fall's volume, reporting comments
by Senator McCartney with respect to three Army employees
in the New York area.
I immediately went to the railroad station
in Hollywood, in Montana, and wrote a telegram to Senator,
telling him that I was returning to Washington,
to following truly, and wanted to correct anything
that might be wrong.
My telegram stated in parts, and I quote,
you may be sure, I will oppose
the Army that infiltration of the Army
to the limit of my ability.
Unquote.
That was on September 4.
I got back to Washington.
I'm the evening of September 7.
The next morning, I found Berna Point.
I had lunch with Senator McCartney, and the stesticated,
which the Senator was investigating,
in the first Army area.
I attended an executive hearing of this committee
held that afternoon.
There I met David Shaw for the first time.
I'm up toward the 20th.
I accompanied by Senator McCartney,
Major General George I had back chiefs
and the lawster, Channel County V. Balloon,
my executive officer, Mr. John Adams, two employees
of senators or members of this committee,
and call, I flew to Fort Mauna.
I was again looking for first hand knowledge
in the security situation, which
was then being investigated by Senator McCartney.
I also wanted to get a feel of the morale of the post.
The hearing had resulted in a new paper headline
of an alarming calligraphy.
Upon arrival, we were joined by Senator H. Alexander Smith,
Congressman James C. Aukenclaw, the third New Jersey district,
and General Law, the commanding general.
The following incident occurred during the course
of our inspection of the laboratory
as a Fort Mauna.
Emphans to one of these, the laboratory
engaged in secret work required special security clearance.
I made an honest box decision
that I would take to responsibility
for inviting those who have been elected to public office
to enter with me.
This included Senator McCartney, Senator Smith,
and Representative Aukenclaw,
but it excluded the other members of the group.
Upon leaving the laboratory, I could see
that the column was extremely angry,
and not having been allowed to enter.
Channel DeLogue informed me that column upon being denied
entrance, had in substance sense.
This means war.
Don't they think I'm clear for classified information?
I have access to FBI files when I want them.
They did this on purpose just to embarrass me.
We will rarely investigate the Army.
Now, I stop to when we learn the colonnade of statements,
quote, this is a declaration of war, uncold,
within the hearing of John J. Slatter,
countermeasures director of Fort Mauna,
and Lieutenant Joseph E. Caw,
the president of General Wattenstead.
This outburst by column was the same type of reaction
as one later on Mr. Adams in early January
mentioned the possibility of overseas duty for Shah.
I now turn to the charges made by Senator McCartney.
One, that I urge the Senator to go after the Navy
and the Air Force.
And two, that I am guilty of blackmailing.
I would like first the recall briefly,
at this point, certain events arising
out of the General's liquor incident.
On Thursday evening, February 25, I made a public statement
from the White House.
In that statement, I said that from assurance
which I had received from members of this committee,
I was confident that Army witnesses
would not be abused in the future.
Shortly after my statement of February 25,
the Indian public, Senator McCartney
said that my statement was, quote,
completely false, unquote.
This was widely quoted, such papers as The New York Times,
the Baltimore Times, the Washington evening star.
In contrast to this, the Washington Post
of February 26, the way next day,
had the following comment, quote.
Senator Subcommittee member Carl E. Munn,
the public himself, the court, however, said he agreed.
He agreed entirely with Stephen Safer.
Munn said he felt Stephen was justified in saying
he received assurance from members of the subcommittee,
meeting individual members about the treatment
of weapons, unquote.
A United press despite also dated February 26,
reported his follow.
Senator Chipotle, Senator Charles Lee Potter,
the public of Michigan, also told newsmen,
Stephen was absolutely correct in saying
he had received assurance that Army witnesses would not
be frowny and humiliating end of quotations.
Against this background, a confirmation of my statement
from two members of this committee,
I submit the order termination, the collectance,
of Senator McCarthy's charge,
of both complete falsehood, unquote.
It is well-abared as incident and mine,
as we turn to the new attack, which Senator McCarthy
has made against me.
Now, after the Senator's charges that I heard him
should go after the Navy and the Air Force,
and that I was gilly of Blackmail.
I call your attention to the fact that these charges
have not been whatsoever to do with the issue raised
by Senator Potter's letter.
As the weather undue influence was used by Senator McCarthy
and his staff to obtain preferential treatment for private charge.
The first of these charges relates to my luncheon
with Senator McCarthy, home, car, and Mr. Adams,
in my office on November 6, which I mentioned earlier.
At this luncheon, I commented on the length
to which I have gone and working with the committee.
I said I've thought the inquiry by the committee
of Fort Monmouth has served its purpose.
I thought the Army should itself follow up
the suggestions of the committee
and take whatever further steps were necessary
to eliminate any possible security risks.
I added that I would make progress reports to the committee.
However, I did not welcome the damaging effects upon the armed
of Senator McCarthy's statements to the press,
which gave the impression that there was much contact
to the anage at Fort Monmouth when such was not the case.
The Senator then brought up the plans the committee had
to investigate subversion in certain industrial plants
engaged in Army work.
I told him the question of security and industrial plants
engaged in secret work was a real concern,
not only for the Army but for the entire defense establishment.
The memorandum released March 12th
by Senator McCarthy's statement I had a different one
to suggest that the committee go after the Navy and the Air Force.
At no time, on that day or at any other time,
did I suggest that this committee go after the Navy and the Air Force?
The Senator said the Army would furnish information
about the other services.
I never made any such statement.
I never had any such information.
I never supplied any such information.
General Matthew V. Ridgeware,
Chief of Staff, Major General G. C. Mudge, Chief of Information,
and Major General A. G. Trudeau, Chief of Intelligence.
Represents doing a approximately half of this three hour meeting.
General Trudeau is presently overseas.
The General Ridgeware and General Mudge are available
to answer any questions that may be asked about,
regarding the discussion that took place while they were present.
The second episode in this connection began on November 16th
when Colin and company by Mr. Adam came to my office.
Colin referred to a statement by me at a press conference on November 13th
for the effect that I was not then aware of any current etched
the analogy for what Monday.
Colin said that Senator McCarthy was considerably upset,
as he felt that my statement had told the right after Monday.
I told him about it not in my intention.
I said that I thought I had been more than fair
to Senator McCarthy and his investigation of what Monday.
I flew to New York the next morning,
and again invited Senator McCarthy to Mudge.
He was finally proposed that the comments I had made regarding the lack
of any current etched in ours at what Monday.
We finally agreed on a statement that I would make
at a joint press conference which Senator McCarthy and I held following lunch.
It boiled down to my saying that the Army had no evidence
of current etched in ours and in making that statement.
I made it clear that I was speaking only for the Army and not for the committee.
This was no different in substance from my statement of November 13th
to which Senator McCarthy had objected.
I still have no evidence of current etched at what Monday.
An un-signed memorandum of November 17 also made public March 12th
by Senator McCarthy.
Space was a fifth lunch in New York that I again suggested
the committee go after the Navy and the Air Force.
That is not true.
Colonel Perry and Mr. Adams were present to us.
They heard no such suggestion and are available to supply information
regarding what was said at this lunch.
My old boss requires me to do everything in my power
for the defense of the United States.
That means the most forthright and honorable dealing
with the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines.
That kind of cooperation I have both given and received
if confirmation is needed, I suggest you check with those services.
It is a singular thing to me that this serious charge
that I tried to persuade the chairman of this committee
to investigate the Navy and the Air Force
would kept secrets so long.
Why should it have come only to life four months later
on the day after the Army chronology event became public?
Now as the Senator charges, Senator McCarthy charges Blackmail.
This charge was included in the Senator's memorandum dated
December 9th and also made public March 12th.
In this case, for more than three months,
this most serious charge that the chairman of this committee
had been Blackmailed by the Secretary of the Army
was kept secret not only from the public,
but from the other members of the committee, as I understand.
I do not know what the Senator had in mind when he made this charge,
but during the 90 days and what he kept it to be open to.
I want to order, Mr. Chairman, the Secretary
and I assumed a honest mistake.
However, if this is a conference referring to my being Blackmailed,
there's never been a charge that I was Blackmailed.
There was a charge that there was an attempt to Blackmail,
a very, very unsuccessful attempt.
And I think the record should be clear in that of this time.
Senator, here we'll have a chance to introduce
the Secretary of the Army.
I do not know what the Senator had in mind when he made this charge,
but during the 90 days in which he kept it secret,
he continues to make flattering remarks about me and public.
On December 16th, Senator McCarthy was quoted by the New York Times
of public.
I may say, just so this will not be misinterpreted
as an attack upon Secretary Steven,
and those aren't who are now in charge,
that they have been cooperating fully with.
And I think they are just as concerned as we are
about the very, very unusual picture unfolds.
More and more, they are doing something about.
On February 23rd, the Senator was quoted
in the Washington evening star at Bob Crowley.
I don't think Bob Stevens wants to come in at Jimmy Arming,
any more than this committee does.
On February 26th, the Washington Daily News
quoted the Senator as saying, quote,
I think on the overall key, referring to me,
has done a very good job, unquote.
On March 11th, the day before the Blacksail charge
was made public, Senator McCarthy was quoted
in the Washington Times held a spot.
Oh, Bob Stevens is doing a good job.
We have disagreed and will disagree in the future.
It is impossible to do a job without having some disagreements.
The occasion of the Blacksmail House first on March 12th
was, of course, publication of the Arming
chronological account of the Shines Fair.
Never a last six days later, on March 18th,
Senator McCarthy was quoted in the New York
Alex Schildman in saying that he had no
yield deal feelings against me.
But I was a very fine fellow and honest.
That's the description of a Blackmailer.
The fact remains that this most serious charge
is still on the record.
I therefore say that it has absolutely fallen.
By way of summary, may I say again that I am proud
to have had this chance to speak for the Army today.
The Army is a plan for an important to this nation
and to the friends of freedom and justice
and the heat around the world.
It's integrity and morale are tight with commodity in these times.
And I counted a welcome duty,
to testify to their soundmen here today.
The Shines case is only an example of the wrongful
speaking of privilege of the provoking of power.
It has been a distraction that has kept many men
from the performance of past far more important
in the welfare of this country
and the convenience of a single Army title.
In conclusion, I want to make it clear
that the United States Army does not follow communism.
This committee knows that the American people know that.
I share the views of Senator Leberts-Folk-Solk,
chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services
when he said, I'm not 24, this year.
And I call him as one who has served
and as a past whose children have served.
I share the disbelief and the resentment itself
by millions that there were either significant numbers
of Americans whose loyalty was not in our finest tradition
or that just loyalty was being called
by the very uniform whose derelict sacrifices in Korea
have spoken so eloquently.
Excuse me.
I'd like to announce that we will have two meetings
of the Committee tomorrow morning, both in public here.
Tomorrow, both in public here is one starting in 10th area
in the morning.
When they're getting a two-dirty and half-denome,
there is now a person that will be our authority
so we will weaken Dean at 10th area with Mr. Stevens
back in the witness.
Sharon, the council of the candidate,
please.
The candidate, please.
The ABC Radio Network and its affiliated stations
have been bringing you for the last two hours and a half.
On the scene coverage, you from the Christy Army hearings
direct from Lake Poccus Room
in the Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill in Washington.
The Committee has just recessed for the day.
Senator Muntz has called for two meetings for tomorrow,
one in the morning and one in the afternoon.
ABC Radio again will be prepared to bring you
the on-the-scenes coverage of the hearings
or many of these stations when the next station is scheduled.
For a smoke to the testimony this afternoon was devoted
to the reading of a statement by the Secretary of the Army
Robert T. Stevens, also to a brief questioning
of Assistant Secretary of State General Walter Beatles Smith.
This program came to you from the Senate Office Building
in Washington.
This is the ABC Radio Network.
Thank you.